SE3200 REVIEW FOR MIDTERM
What is JavaScript?
What is the DOM?
Know how to write an appropriately coded URL query string.
DOM

Querying
document.querySelector()
Selectors:
tag:
ID: '.'
class: '#'
etc.

Use console.log() to verify successful queries.

Manipulation
el.innerHTML
el.style.____

Naming convention (background-color property is backgroundColor).
el.classList.add()
Insertion
document.createElement()
parentEl.appendChild(newEl)
User Events
Three parts: target element, event type, event handler function.
el.onclick = function () { };
Why is the event handler a function? May be called repeatedly (or never).
JSON
What is it? A notation for communing data. Analogy: sheet music.
What is it not? A programming language (no variables, functions, loops).
Why is it important? Interoperability between many programming languages.
Simple example: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON#Syntax Links to an external site.
Data structures: objects and arrays
Data types: strings, numbers (integers and floats), booleans, null
Fetch API
The fetch() function implements Ajax in JavaScript.
A request is made to a server, and the server replies with a response.
Asynchronous
What is asynchronous communication?
Root word: chrono (time)
Contrast to synchronous communication:
Synchronous means at the same time, or together in time.
Analogy: calling someone on the phone.
Asynchronous means not together in time.
Analogy: texting someone.
Contrast to concurrent/parallel programming:
asynchronous does not mean concurrently or in parallel.
Why is it important?
Avoids code blocking while waiting for server responses.
Avoids freezing/lagging UI (bad user experience).
JSONBin.io
Upload a JSON document using the web interface.
Mark as public before saving each new document.
Use the generated URL to make a fetch() request.

idempotent:

Server and Flask
Client-server architectural model
Purpose: centralization of data and logic.
Advantages: accessibility and convenience for end users.
HTTP protocol
What is a protocol? Rules for communication.
Requests and responses:
Client-server diagram: client sends a request, server responds.
Show text representations of a request and a response: MDN Links to an external site.
What’s in a request?
method (required: verb/action)
path (required: noun/subject)
headers (optional: metadata)
body (optional: data)
What’s in a response?
status code (required: generally indicates success or failure)
100s: informational, rarely used
200s: successful
300s: redirection, not used with APIs
400s: client errors
500s: server errors
headers (optional: metadata)
body (optional: data)
REST
What is it?
A standard for interoperability between clients and servers.
A “common way of doing things” for web API developers.
Benefit: consistency and commonality between many different APIs.
Provides a uniform interface for APIs:
Method is the action: GET=retrieve, POST=create, PUT=update, etc.
Path is the collection or member: /restaurants or /restaurants/123
Collection is always the prefix and always pluralized.
Reading: https://www.restapitutorial.com Links to an external site.
CORS
CORS is the exception to the rule; the rule is the same-origin policy.
Purpose: protects users from malicious cross-site communication.
Enforced by web browsers (not Postman), exceptions made by APIs.
Reading: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS Links to an external site.
Read through Simple requests, stop at Preflighted requests.
Primary takeaway: the Access-Control-Allow-Origin response header.